oh my gosh after just dragging these
shows along for at least a month we
actually have something to talk about
I'm so excited we actually have a ton of
things to talk about because right after
the show happened last week Claude and I
benched every player anyone's ever cared
about for their roster we uh we had LCS
start there was a game that was
there's no Nexus explosion and yet a
game was finished it's just like the
craziest weekend ever and that's why
this show is gonna be amazing
hot like they gave us a 31 starts right
now wait we're good the redline League
is brought to you by omen by HP took a
second Travis your fake youtuber voice
need some work
Wow guys in a hotline League it's
whatever
how are you work I'm really happy things
are finally underway again and kind of
like what you just said like I was
posting all the stuff that was happening
and I forgot to mention the c9 things I
was like it's crazy meta this team is
losing these guys are winning the game
ended without ending
oh yeah and c9 benched yeah everyone
should mention by the way I forgot to
mention in the show opener but we are
gonna be joined by - very shortly into
the show we're talking a little bit
beforehand one of the things we'll be
talking about is of course the the echo
fox ruling where there was no nexus
explosion and they still won but before
begin to that where I just wanna say and
I felt like the COBE Infinity Ward dust
away thing the joke was not executed
particularly well but you throwing your
hands up and saying eh was very good
thank you good yeah it was a real guest
of hotline League right now give me my
wallet
Travis stole my wallet that's what he
does to get guests he's he owes their
shit
oh yeah he's picking up at this time and
then Oh what do you know I'm live yeah
people can't see you right now oh there
you go
are you from are you familiar with this
show is this issue about that good game
yeah what do you think of the echo fox
ruling it's good i liked it
game was over and don't wake them replay
the game it's already i mean it is
pretty much done if you were a clutch i
would you you'd be sad what you'd agree
with it cuz i came back from a bigger
lead than that and we got immortals
we're like 12k cooled down and we lost
every tower and they're about to end the
game on us and we came back so of course
I'd be fucking pissed but what can you
do well so you say the game is over but
then you just subscribe to scenario
where you came back
well it's realistically over but that
wasn't miracle I was like I'm here come
back okay
so chances of a miracle come back where
I mean you don't remake the game because
there could have been a miracle comeback
yeah I thought that would feel really
shitty for equifax yeah a mark do you
have anything anything for Peter before
he leaves with his wallet how come
you've been in the background of this
show more than you've actually been on
this show Travis steals all my things
and that makes me come together that's
actually not true I mean he like walked
you in bed that one time I had to pay
for his dims I hung well then he came
here he got in Kobe's bed don't get in
Kobe's bed again I think he's not happy
about that okay one of the first times I
interacted with with double-up was at a
CLG house party I really drunk my like
hopped into bed with him like we all
think we don't talk before that yeah so
uh anyway we're doing a show called
hotline League if you're just do it
again you might be a little confused by
what's happening I think we all are
types really loudly on the keyboard
do you want to yeah yeah I do I do
because we I want to I want to do that
for - gets on because otherwise he's in
a weird situation - yeah yeah okay so my
take on this is I am fine with the
ruling as it stands I think both you
could make an argument both ways so if
the
and I think and either way they're in a
shitty position and people are gonna
argue that they should have done it or
they shouldn't have done it
the big thing for me is I'm just
frustrated I did a video about this
where I feel like these bugs keep
happening and quite frankly I'm re
surprised because it feels like there
are more bugs in the LCS game like there
were just it is amazing how many bugs
are discovered in the LCS which is a
tiny tiny tiny fraction of the amount of
games that are played completely and I
had a lot of people that once I did that
video they said Travis I'm I'm oh I'm a
software developer you might not know
this but you can never truly eradicate
all bugs so saying just get rid of the
bugs that there's no book that's not it
I get it I get it I am NOT a software
developer I know everything it's gonna
have bugs but I feel like if you if you
think about the sheer amount of bugs
that pop up in competitive games which
are just the tiniest fraction on the
amount of total games that are played it
is kind of insane and I have to imagine
there's a way to limit the stuff a
little bit where they're not games
crashing and patch 11 with with Taliah
on the regular server could they not
have detected that somehow it just it
kind of blows my mind I don't I feel
like there were probably things they
could be doing more to address the stuff
I also wish I could interview the league
office person yesterday I thought was
kind of lame that they didn't let me do
that yeah I assume maybe not you do it
or were they just busy working they were
they were busy sorry I shouldn't say let
me do it they were busy trying to figure
stuff out I I think it would have been
nice for them to come out and say we're
still investigating what happened here's
why we made the ruling because I'm I get
that they can't look 100% they still
have to figure out like what the cause
is and I'm sure they're gonna make a
statement that involves that I think in
the immediate moment people are going to
be asking why did you do this create
this ruling the very basic answer that
was given on the broadcast is fine but
not particularly satisfying and I think
the idea that you're like they're just
not going to talk to any media about it
is kind of strange so that's my take
yeah I can see that from how other leads
and things operate there's a big
explosion someone gets up and says we're
investigating cause of explosion to the
media yeah I mean technically we said
that on the broadcast or something we
gave like a really short description of
like the reasoning but whatever it's
definitely not the same as talking to
you or something letting someone ask
questions back yeah I don't know how
comfortable you are sharing your take on
everything and if you feel like it was a
forget me I'm just here take over all
yeah I'm not dumb so as soon as that
happened in the meetings after I was
like hey by the way I go on a show on
Mondays what am I allowed to talk about
and you know they said they gave me a
couple things I can't say mostly related
to the bug itself okay not really about
it so there are things you can't say
that's that's what we know right now
we're gonna concern with us instead of
the things you can't say yeah so from my
perspective like it kind of sucks for
obviously like you said there's no one's
gonna be happy if someone's gonna get
wrong even like the way I think about it
like who gets fucked less it's still
weird to me you know like oh man clutch
gaming was losing that game echo fox but
all that worked in it so would have
fucked echo fox more to remake then cuz
you know on the Deskjet and now we're
talking about like what a chance is that
this team comes back you know we set
around ninety ten in favor of echo fox
at that point and so like if you're
setting it back to 50/50 it's like
arguably worse to go ninety ten to fifty
fifty then just screw the team that's at
the ninety ten position already so you
can know you can argue it from that
perspective I know a lot of people got
really mad because technically the game
didn't meet any of the requirements
there were not the requirements there
like guidelines
yeah the guidelines so it's like if the
gold lead is X big I think it's like 25%
if you're down more than seven turrets
if you've lost two in Hibbs and like a
lot of people start pointing to other
games where they didn't where they did
offer a remake and a lot of those times
it was just one of those conditions
still not met but only close to one of
them this game was a 10k gold lead with
it in head down
for dragons to zero the only redeeming
factor and clutches favor was that it
was 15 to 15 and kills but they still
haven't grabbed a single objective off
the map with all those kills so they
were not super close to coming back
really like even if they chased them at
that botton hip like Baron set up for a
minute 40 the most you can do is charge
down mid and maybe get a mid in hip so
like David they were a long way towards
coming back yeah see how I'll say oh
good my perspective on it and like cuz I
think a lot be really but what would
you've done in those things like it was
a weird game to be the precedence
because I don't think this had ever
happened before I think this is the
first time it's literally ever just been
awarded game victory whatever it's
called and this because it didn't
satisfy one of those like guidelines it
definitely feels weird to be the first
example yeah that they ever hold up but
like in the future this is a game that
would probably get awarded and so like
while it is not the ideal
precedent-setting game i still think it
was it was the right decision and like I
know Haku Howe felt like he was about to
kill who knee I talked to who knee after
that and he's like I have banner of
command zhonya's and flash up and you
have no summoners like you're not
killing me there and then the rest of
echo Fox was closer so he thought if
they engaged on him clutch would he just
got wiped so like as well as double is
perspective a lot of people think like
the chance of them coming back was
pretty close to zero yeah I it was
really fascinating like I I expected
clutch to be frustrated but ultimately
feel like okay well whatever we lost so
were we going to lose it's just shitty
situation but like Apollo is the nicest
guy in the LCS and I walked up to him
afterwards and was like trying to be
like oh man what a fucking shitty ending
ha or whatever
a little Mimi and he was like not in a
good mood right now Travis and I was
like whoa okay like you know this is a
really stressed out scenario whenever
Apollo is like not not in a good mood
poor dude I feel bad for those guys I
the sense I get is that the clutch guys
don't this speculation they're not I
don't think they're gonna say anything
but my
my speculation is that they don't agree
with the decision me it's almost like
following a script like the people who
get fucked or never gonna be like
everything I'm quote unquote fucked in
this situation they're gonna be like oh
yeah totally understand that one and
like they're gonna throw a hissy fit and
complain about it they should do that I
mean that's their right as the team that
had this made against them but it's also
not fair to echo fox either so like
they're all like yep that wasn't super
fair but we came out ahead so we can say
that I don't know everyone's just kind
of like saying what you think they would
say given like what happened to them
yeah I think the whole thing I will say
look I'm not trying to be like a right
hater or anything like that but I I a
lot of the content or some of the
content that I've been making this split
that is a little bit more critical than
my sort started to fall in the same
bucket which is I am worried that
eSports is not enough of a priority at
Riot to sustain the like
professionalizing of it that needs to
happen there's like a bigger
conversation obviously I don't need to
go too far into it but like I I think
it's fine to excuse these types of bugs
and to say oh well we've got chronobreak
but we can't always resolve this stuff
whenever you're you know several years
in but if they really want to turn this
thing into something that lasts for
years and years and years to come
you you need to do things like have your
events announced well in advance which
is something I was frustrated with
earlier the split and make it so that
people don't just throw up their arms
and go bugs happen because when you've
got like the bugs happen and software
attitude you just kind of excuse any bug
that occurs as a bugs happen thing and
it moves on I think there are probably
things that they could be doing they
could patch less frequently they could
be more comprehensive and they're
scanning of the book situation they
could whatever they could do a lot I
think to prevent bugs from popping up
and so as a guy with pro
that came from a program background like
no climbing like it's it's easy to say
like they should not have these bugs
with like like like the super saying you
can never know and like until now I
can't think of a situation in the NA LCS
since chrono break has been introduced
where the game was not chrono breakable
until now I think they did I think one
point in time they did they had to do a
remake because it was Colonel breathable
that what know if it's Corona breakable
then they don't need to remake no no it
was not I'm saying they it was not
Corona breakable and sorry
look I forget I think that they had it
for a while but look yeah I again
everyone are is the response whenever I
see this stuff is everyone just says
well bugs are always going to exist and
I get it I'm saying bugs exist too much
in competitive League of Legends and if
you just have the mentality of bugs are
always going to exist and you could have
a limitless number of bugs and
constantly write them off like do you
think do you think mark that there's no
way that they could improve the vetting
of the game that they could take tasks
if they patch less frequently would it
be less likely to have bugs yeah
so that's they could patch less
frequently for instance like there are
things they could do to to lessen the
amount of bugs that show up yeah but
that's also like you're weighing that
against other things right like do you
want to have a shitty metaphor longer
because it takes longer to patch in
competitive if they ever miss on a patch
you know I don't know like that that's
what you're Wayne it's like oh man art
of meta sensors sucked well you had it
for an extra month and a half because or
whatever it is you know when when games
were super slow at the start of spring
like have a have another four or five
weeks of 50 minute games because you
don't patches quickly like everything is
costed against something else and yeah
like maybe I'm crazy I mean a lot of a
lot look i-i've thrown this opinion out
there I know I've got a lot of pushback
even from the community which it feels
weird to be more critical of riot than
the community but I just look
look I I'm familiar with other eSports
there are not as many bugs that occur
there are still bugs that occur in dota
2 and in csgo and others but there are
less bugs that occur in those games it's
my understanding there's not really been
an instance where like games have had to
be remade or reset or whatever in DotA
for instance like it's there there are
ways around this stuff you know and that
that's my take but yeah yeah maybe we're
all fine with the amount of bugs that
occur yes I I'm not happy when I see a
bug but I'm not like we should revisit a
lot of policies to fix this thing to
happen I mean do you do you feel like
the amount of bugs that are currently
else yes and and globally are acceptable
right now
yeah I don't feel like it's too bad okay
that's that's just altum Utley that's
like the core difference in our opinions
is I feel like at this amount of point
in time there should be less of this
stuff but maybe other people have more
susceptible or more more ability to
accept it than I do
yeah and like we'll see what we'll see a
rice is about the bug to just watch like
who knows what they say maybe when that
happens you'll feel less like right
about it yeah yeah yeah the only other
thing I'll say is people like oh you
know I saw some people in chat being
like just put it just to lay the game
and and play it again some other time or
something or like I mean one you have to
accept that then that you can like that
you want to delay the game and then
remake it it's not like a broadcasting
issue I think it's more of a fairness
standpoint and to like in some games
like some rules exists to just call the
game like I think baseball has a ruling
his after the sixth inning and it would
have been a rain delay you actually just
call the game like write some sports
have rules like that too so you know I
think it sucks balls I wasn't happy
about it if I was echo Fox I wouldn't I
would not want to remake at all and if I
was clutch I would not want to I would
want to remake because it's bullshit we
didn't actually lose like I don't know
it's a shitty situation sometimes that's
just how it goes
we'll have bonynge pan double lives
girlfriend on the show in the future
because she's a software programmer
and is happy to talk to us about what
was the joke but she's in the chat right
now offering to spill the beans on
programming stuff other than that what
are you doing mark are you talking to
people are speeding in life who's
feeding only lines talk about a few
lines so I was saying I listened to dar
doc and he said that the game
disappeared it's like dar doc doesn't
know what the fuck happened yes
like what they tell dar doc like a while
they're trying to just like focus on the
problem is not like you know indicative
of what's really happening at a base
level of the code so like yeah I'm not
gonna listen to a pro player who was
told a one-sentence thing and have that
be like yeah that's what happened the
game disappeared they just couldn't find
it again yeah I like anyone who's
watched a shitload of League of Legends
and saw that pause happen instantly rekt
I saw the crash happen instantly
recognized it was different than like
any other crash you've seen like Jan I
instantly turned to each other and we're
like that doesn't look like a crash I've
seen before yeah super interesting I
mean just just the way everything froze
the inertia doesn't break like that and
so I think everyone knew that this was
not like a pause without like the pause
overlay I get them I get that this one
was particularly unique and and
obviously is that we ended up with a
particular unique circumstance so yeah
yeah that's what all I'm saying he's
like this is definitely I'm pretty sure
but like when people get into what
happened whenever ride feels safe
talking about it and they know what your
messaging wants to be it was a pretty
different situation and other bugs in
the past look ultimately I'll say what I
already say in these situations I my
opinion is that things should be
different I am voicing that opinion I
don't think right as an evil company and
I'm not trying to make any personal
attack somewhere right now in the the
riot eSports office someone is shaking
their fist angrily at the screen and
saying why is Travis hate us I don't
hate anybody just just raising my
thought process on it what was happy to
do would be happy to do an interview in
the coming week or something to learn
more about the process and be educated
because perhaps I'm an idiot on the
subject anyway let's get - on here yes
yes let's do that
we need to
spring the screen over to something else
is - in discord I think I can go to this
one safely yeah
switching over I've got him somewhere on
James oh can you add him to some I think
you have him on discord or on skype and
I don't oh I saw him come online so yeah
that you must have added him to the last
show he was on so can you add him to
this call no one I've switched the
screen so you can even do is that no
that's a contact that's someone I wanted
to do how do I add people this goddamn
call button technology people as you can
see right now very complicated if I if I
can't run the show smoothly maybe maybe
the bugs and the LCS are acceptable okay
all right see the call
I think dashes in and he just needs to
mute him so I see it I see him on this
court to how much Chinese goods there we
go all right I've seen that's the right
- on discord yes - show Co one sec let
me just volumes all my volumes are that
voice doesn't sound like - we also
obtain you done on skype yeah I meet it
on scared I said all right you say this
doesn't sound like me it's an imposter I
think - tell us an embarrassing story
about yourself to us so that we know
it's actually you oh that sounds like a
great method of verification yeah yeah
that's how I verify all the people in my
life even when I see them in person I'm
like this I've seen a lot of sci-fi
shows this person might not actually be
themselves please tell me something
embarrassing a private secret you
wouldn't want anybody else to know
I think I've got everything zag set up I
think I've got everything set up for
pushing like you know what giving you a
ten-second shirt sure all right
oh yeah Travis at some point I'm gonna
need to run downstairs and open the door
for somebody that's fine you want to
tell us you my girlfriend well things
are getting serious if you're opening
the door for her during Michelle
congratulations mark exciting
improvements in his life all right -
you're on the show just saying what's up
everyone
oh yeah my hair's going nuts yeah yes is
fun can you where's Cassandra get her
over here why don't you just show it up
right now and fix your hair
any surprise James with what you're blue
in that picture unfortunately it's not
as dark as it was last time when I came
on the show so my lights aren't showing
up well we moved the show to accommodate
your schedule no I know I appreciate you
have a busy night life wonderful
wonderful so I guess I should officially
address the fact the dash is on the show
- is joining us on hotline Li this is I
think he's the first ever guest to
appear twice if you don't count Kelby
who is somewhat of a co-host back yeah
well thank you very much wrong in that
mark I'm trying to think of another
example I can't assume you're right I
think that's it well in the way welcome
to the show
- again thank you how was the LCS
weekend for you kick-off weekend uh it
was good I mean it's funny we still
walked away from the weekend I think
saying damn that was more tame than we
thought but that's just given the way
the rest of the region's played and kind
of some of the stuff that we saw come
out like triple support comps with an
ADC in the jungle you know
Darius botlane like where was that or
you know just some more stuff but
ultimately I had a ton of fun watching
you know yeah there was some statistic
that I think Emily ran tweeted out that
we use we we kept with marksmen more
than any other region like lck I think
had like a 35
percent marksman news such as a trade
and I think we had like eighty percent
or ninety or something yeah now granted
the win rate of AD sees in na was
actually positive or above fifty percent
whereas in other regions it was like
thirty three percent so here's what that
tells me that jaded if you are if you
are down on North America the story
there is we are eighty sees only know
how to play ADCs and they can't learn
how to play other stuff quickly enough
so the lid rate is super high here
because when they try to play something
else that doesn't work yeah but maybe
maybe we're just ahead of the game we've
realized that all this experimentation
these other regions is just bullshit
it's hard to say it's actually hard to
say because at times you like you watch
a game and it's like well very clearly
scaling on an ADC Kent or on certain
ABCs can still work yeah
but then in other cases it's like well
the game isn't gonna go past 25 minutes
so why would you ever play an ADC yeah
do you guys it to see any of the
tailgate OUTFRONT nominated i have to
say mark it's sad to me that you didn't
get a chance to see it because thinking
back to the days when it was just you
and Josh with a CRT and the the parking
lot playing smash and then eventually I
hear getting shut down for having a
barbecue authorized barbecue I I think
it's a little different now like Team
Liquid had a whole truck out there with
like a whole broadcast studio in it like
all the all the different teams besides
the new guys had different stuff there
was a TSM pinata that was I need to mute
those alerts there's a TSM pinata that
CLG brought that was filled with salt I
don't know if you guys heard about that
yeah yeah oh yeah yeah it was it's
pretty good and by the way your guys's
new studio talked to me about the new
studio because that looks on thing it's
glorious it's so glorious I mean so when
I first started working well in this
studio space the analyst desk was
originally in that same same area and
then it was when we went do
streams we turn that into the battle
theater so that space kind of got like
yanked away from us which which was like
a little bit of a bummer ultimately
though like getting all that space back
is amazing
now having like just more tools and
diversity for what we can do on the set
having more looks I mean you've already
seen us do interviews over there with
awfully we did the one little
telestrator segment with mark we have
this massive video wall behind us which
just allows us to use so many more
different graphics assets and whatnot
when it comes to telling stories without
having to just like put a full a full
screen graphic up there we can kind of
do both at the same time so yeah
ultimately I mean I'm in heaven now yeah
I look super cool I'm trying to rip
debris you guys able to walk between the
different sets before like we years ago
whenever you were in that old students
place no well back to back in that day
all we had was a desk yeah and so it was
just a desk with the screen behind and
whatnot yeah a full studio yeah yeah
well we don't see that on the show but
yes much like a Travis cafard studio
studio I think is what you mean to say
yeah
really impressive mark are you enjoying
that space not at all
all right well that's right and the
start of the show was great was that a
bird scooter that you were on Marc did
you have to rent that I don't think I'm
allowed to comment LCS sounding like
it's endorsing a specific excuse but it
was in fact on some looter eyes scooter
that you rented that you can rent okay
from a phone okay
that's great I love the idea that you're
like okay I've rented it where the shows
ready we can start using it well like
the whole thing is that how much that
cost you said I actually don't even
really know because my phone so old we
had one of the graphics people help me
rent it but I used my credit card on her
phone and then I didn't have my phone on
me so when the thing locked itself like
a minute before we went live I just had
to hope that she unlocked it in time
what what vote you have I have a Samsung
Galaxy s5 with a backed Cason yeah okay
it's pretty bad all right let's not
talking about my phone here yeah that's
it's embarrassing you should feel bad
it just felt before we get into calls
I'll just wrap it up by saying I don't
know how you guys feel a bit like hi
there is part of me every time I will
admit every time it splits about a start
I go no no my weekends my weekends I
like these things don't don't take these
away from me and then the moment I every
time the moment I get to like the
parking lot up front I start to see it
all the faces again and like the game's
kick off and you get that first big
upset and you see like all the crazy
stuff it's just it feels like being home
again so I loved having LCS kick back
off again I know that feel I mean I
think we all have that feel it's when
you're social it's when your social life
like kind of begins again on the
weekends during the off-season yeah and
you get that taste of what it's like to
you know actually be able to go to
dinner with somebody on a Saturday yeah
you couldn't have done before or
something like that or go on a weekend
vacation yeah and then that slips away
from you but ultimately that's good good
to see professionally kick back up well
there's so much that happened mark you
should maybe explain how how the show
works for a Collins yeah so for people
who have not seen this show before the
way this works is we have a discord that
we are using for it I'm gonna post it
into a Twitter chat right now so you're
gonna go join that discord once you do
there'll be some voice channels that you
need to join either plug calls or plug
calls to once you're in there you can
kind of mute yourself if you don't want
to listen them people breathing and then
there's also a text channel called plug
topics in there that's we're gonna put
your take we don't want random questions
just like do you guys like split and so
we want to hear what you guys think
about it so I think this med is awful I
love this meta and then give me some
reasons hopefully I like what you're
saying I'll pull you into the waiting
room where once it's your turn I'll do a
quick Mic Check make sure you're good to
go and then pull you on air the only
request I have for us as hosts is
because there's so much to talk about
and some of us really enjoy talking I'm
sorry I'm sorry mark listen I I'm gonna
try to cut down my answers a little bit
all I'm gonna say is you know there's a
lot to talk about and I know we love all
of us love talking so I i I've already
seen dashes already doing it there's
been a couple times where I said
something we had about two seconds of
silence and you could tell you could
tell James is holding himself back okay
I'll say something all right
well either way also should mention if
you are a twitch prime sub you can link
up you with your discord gives you
access to a sub chat which will allow
you to put your question there you can
put that in the sub chat said oh I need
to move the hotline League section up in
discord and that just gives you a little
bit of a better chance of getting picked
because you're not competing with
everybody else so much so feel free if
yourself to use the sub topics chat and
if you're not a sub feel free to make
better decisions with your life
mark is grabbing questions right now and
while he does that I want to shout out
to a slew of people speaking of subs who
have signed up to support the channel in
the last a little bit here we got
applicative Jones dopey d31 3z Badar
crossbow burrito who resub said a few
Travis stop taking my money pleat PS
only sub for the show and Mark give him
my money purple herb subbed dr.
Manhattan 18 resub for seven months it
says pogchamp owned by HP i'll call
it'll soon keep the stream up mindless
gamer tomax of dagger spine and more
that I will get to in just a little bit
now mark it's that moment as you move
into the other waiting room well you
found somebody yeah we got a dark King
who is joining us right now dark King
you've been on the show before I believe
but maybe you can remind me where he
come from I'm going from Raleigh North
Carolina
and I was on the holland league live me
and - guy that had a moment oh nice nice
what was the moment I see topic you can
remind me well I was the one that didn't
like the
the threes and we had a spirited debate
ah
I gotcha gotcha well welcome back
welcome back to the show and thank you
for being a sub what would you like to
talk about in the show tonight so I
thought when I was catching up on the
Fiesta meta whether or not we liked that
name or not I thought that this would be
super fun to watch and it turns out I
was very very wrong
I probably watching all the games this
weekend and it killed my moves at all it
was like it was like watching it like it
was watching soloqueue is what it felt
like I felt like they gate soon as there
was like one major like team fight the
game was over and I didn't feel like
there's ever any competition for like
comeback or anything like that and even
like some of the interviews that you did
Travis with probably and some of the
other coaches they've been saying like
we don't know what's going on and we may
win we may lose yeah and I was like
that's such a I don't know that's a meta
you want to play and where you don't
feel confident in what you're doing and
not just because you're trying new
things it's more that you feel like the
meta is just like a coin flip of like if
you were able to execute off the get-go
or whether or not if that happens it
just feels like it was just a little
wash I didn't I didn't interview prolly
so I'm not sure where you saw that but I
mean I'm gonna let - and mark let loose
here in a second but for me I feel like
we constantly see this whenever we come
back to the start of a split where the
teams have all been on break for a while
they there's usually a pretty big patch
right before spring I mean obviously the
big season changes right before spring
and then you don't sound surprising that
we saw one run before summer so I feel
like generally speaking a lot of the
times it's a bit of a mess at the start
of the split and everybody kind of looks
bad but I don't know mark or - if what
have you guys wants to pop in here
what's to say about it I think the
snowballing of it I understand agree
with Darkwing is a little out of hand
and I would love to see that get pulled
back a little bit I think you know in
one of our segments we highlighted a
bunch of changes that have spent the
game up and you hope
you can revert some of them maybe or in
other ways slowly came back down but
outside of that I think like the whole
people don't know what's going on and
this and that like part of it I feel
like is a little disingenuous and kind
of people just not wanting to say their
true thoughts like it's a coin flip
Mehta it's just a coin flip it's like no
it's not I think a lot of the good teams
still win for good reasons and how well
people understand that like echo fox is
- OH
they showed a good understanding of the
meta they played meta picks and put
their best players on that stuff and
what do you know there - oh that's crazy
so I think auntie Travis's point a lot
of the times when we come back and it's
like what do you think the meta is or
something you know a lot of times you
hear Pro players even when it is a more
standard meta still say oh we're still
trying to figure it out you know Evelynn
yeah I mean I I don't disagree on
everything I'm with you on the
snowballing aspects as well I mean every
once in a while it's nice to see a
22-minute stop because one team to just
you know execute so perfectly and
everything goes right I go in Gardena
yeah like that you know yeah sometimes
it is fun to see something go quick
I don't like an average game time that
is around 25 26 minutes that feels a
little fast to me if I had to put a
number to it I'd be like I'd like an
average game time to be thirty minutes
to 33 doesn't mean there aren't fast
ones I think though I wholeheartedly
agree with Marc's point about like pro
player sentiment and coach sentiment I'm
not sold on the fit oh it's 50/50 or it
did scoyne flipper no one knows what's
good I think I mean I think there's
still an element of that where it's like
no one knows what's ideal yet but that's
because it was a massive change and I
think I hear most of that from the teams
that see seem to be resistant to the
idea that like there is a best way to
play League of Legends right now you
just haven't found it yet you know and
like be okay with the
that you don't know the answer and work
towards finding answers ProTeam because
that's what's gonna separate you from
the rest and to Mark's point a crow fox
is one of those teams that seems to be
willing to do that they're recognizing
where the strengths of their players are
within the strengths of you know the the
champion meta and they're playing to
that so dark ink you have a thoughts
like I don't I don't disagree with the
entertainment point though like
sometimes it's not fun to see like that
just a one fight and the whole games
over there's no comeback mechanic yeah I
definitely feel like it's beginning the
meta there's always a time to learn and
like that's why I feel accept week two
in the the tiers stages of like worlds
or the international competitions are
generally more competitive and more
interesting games because people have
figured out what that meta is but I feel
like this one is just there's so many
like more potential like takes but
beyond that is just the I I just feel
like it doesn't really matter what your
like your comp is if it just loses one
fight in the game and so quickly they I
don't feel like the there's a lot of
like comeback potential it doesn't feel
like there's like the great comeback
games like there was a the conversation
with double lift and a premiere that in
the YouTube video that's not out yet
from Travis that you just showed but
you're they were saying that they didn't
think the echo fox and clutch gaming
called they thought it was fair but they
thought in the future sorry
oh my echo went off typical so were they
going oh yeah they were saying that they
thought that the that match was over but
and I think another method I think there
would have been comeback potential I
think that's I guess my the end of my
conversation with that is just I felt
like that match was
awfully over in this meta worth where
they were but I think in another meta
that that that evaluation of that call
maybe would've been differently because
oh yeah they could have stall off the
game me at the 45 bids god help us all
and dig and then clutch gaming could
have came back from that but in this
meta they've already lost uh an ace
they're about to get steamrolled into
their base there was really a difficult
chance that they're gonna come back you
know I think it's also also worth noting
that like comebacks aren't impossible
like I I'm definitely the sentiment to
look that man you know you often see
like one seven minute rate fighting it
feels like the game's over but the c9 vs
clutch game clutch actually came back
and made that even after getting three
for owed three minutes into the game and
they won some fights after that but they
still end up losing that game so I don't
feel like it's fair to call that game
like that game was technically in my
mind to come back there's the actual
come back from the TSM vs. CLG game but
I I don't I just want to kind of big
come back over to you comebacks are
possible they are more difficult to
happen less I definitely agree they're
yeah I just don't want people to get
this sense because the same thing happen
with marksmen it's like oh man there's
other things in the bot lane and
marksmen aren't the clear-cut answer
anymore marksmen are dead I don't want
that a couple of plays ayah game 1 and
stomps with it yeah I don't want to
happen with comeback swear it's like
comebacks or dead it's like no we just
saw some comebacks they're not dead
they're just it's it a lot harder right
now and there should be more of a my
faith yeah very good well hey thank you
so much star King for joining the show
yep thanks for having on guys thank you
dude thank you
mark really quickly I am going to spit
out this cough drop so I can do an ad
isn't that great all right into a
special holder of cough drops
no yeah no but guess what everybody I
want to talk to you I want to talk to
you about you guys in twitch chats you
know I want to talk about I think you
probably know what I'm talking about
we're gonna talk about talk about omen
by HP the only sponsor this show has
ever had and ultimately the best
sponsors they've ever had because of
that
and also they're great they do great
stuff mark rockin that owned by HP
headset right now all this stuff back
here
this is owned by HP stuff this is where
my producer is hard at work on the omen
by HP rig behind me it's not actually my
producer she's respected
anyway they you might have heard they
announced the sponsorship of cloud 9
that's really cool and they also they
sponsor a bunch of different stuff they
came into the space not too long ago
just a couple years ago and realized the
value of competitive gaming that eSports
was something where there was such a
great deal of passion of fans and they
realized that they wanted to support it
across all sorts of different levels and
so that's why you see them sponsor
everything from overwatch League to
teams to all the way down to mark and my
you know modest production here and so
they do a whole lot they do a whole lot
to help us out a lot of people know that
mark suffered during the break there was
not anything for him to do there was no
MSI there was no he but he still had
this show and it was omen who was kind
of caring him through that time I've got
it I've got good news for you guys by
the way they they're coming out with new
accessories which they recently
announced and we've done this twice
before this is the third time we're
gonna do this I'm gonna pay them to
twitch chat right now we're doing a
giveaway you're doing a giveaway right
now with them you can sign up for the
giveaway there have a chance to win
those accessories I think that runs
through next week if you're watching the
vaad you can check it out on the youtube
links as well but we want to thank all
anybody to be so much for their support
of the show so thank you to you omen now
it's time to move into the next caller
mark do you want to go find us somebody
yeah very good
thanks so much a twitch chat for being
so nice and generous during the ad
breaks by the way - how did you spend
your break you mean just now no no not
now I was between MSI and na LCS yeah I
spent it
in a big bear weekend for my remains
birthday then my parents were in town
for a bit and then I went up to San
Francisco with my gorgeous gorgeous
girlfriend for another weekend just last
weekend so I've been traveling a lot
just kind of bouncing around seeing
friends I had I had a group of like six
or seven friends come stay for a week in
LA
during that amount of time as well so
kind of all over the place but it's been
good yeah didn't did invite you on here
to brag about how gorgeous your
girlfriend is but that was that was
really you know she's watching the show
oh wow she's super Gordon oh that I'm
glad I'm glad you brought it up
fantastic event Nexus is here I met
Nexus where you called from I'm calling
from Springfield Massachusetts great
great glad to have you on thanks for
being a twitch sub what do you want to
talk about on the show I want to talk
about the c9 benching ooh
okay spicy topic I was waiting for
somebody to talk okay what's your take
okay my take especially based on that
interview that you put out earlier today
with Jack where he mentioned that he
heard from reapered that he thought the
players weren't really showing drive or
hunger to be it improve or to really
just you know get wins in this bed up I
think that is a fantastic reason to
bench them because if you don't have
Drive you know you can get replaced you
know it could be to try to light a fire
under you or it could be to actually
promote talent you think might be better
coming from Academy both of which I
think are perfectly good reasons because
this like these are jobs for these guys
this is just like an actual game so they
really need to take it seriously and try
to improve like it doesn't matter if
they don't enjoy the meta obviously
that's you know up to a game design but
as far as as far as they are concerned
their job is to win games improve and
try to carry their team as far as they
can it doesn't really matter if they
don't like the champion that they had to
do it on yeah I don't know if I'm not
sure if it a lot of people oven
speculating it was because of the meta I
think that might be
trying to put their opinions on the meta
on to why players or not don't have as
much Drive as possible I think one of
the interesting things before we
directly address your your thoughts is
like it's just an interesting I don't
think that Jack would have ever done
this in a non RNA in a relegation world
it's interesting now that like you know
Jack can say hey these guys aren't
performing up to snuff I'm going to take
the much bigger risk by putting my
challenger Academy players in and sort
of risk the fact that we're gonna have a
bad split because long term this will be
better better for the org but I don't
know mark or - do you disagree with the
caller do you have any thoughts on it I
don't know if it's the matter or not
that's just I mean I've never heard of
lack of motivation issues with sneakier
Jensen before so like the timing I think
makes it seem like that but yeah I don't
know yeah so I cannot speak to the
reason that they were swapped at all
just because I don't have again all
we've been told what the ORAC has told
everyone else you know but if it is what
would you know what you you stated then
you're speaking my language like I think
that awesome in the franchise system
that it allows an owner or a coach to
use their tools of motivation or
whatever it is in order to get their
team moving in the right direction and
if this is what these players need to
light a fire under their ass then then
great
I don't know if they're X yeah I don't
know if their expectation was oh well
the meta will go back in like a week or
two or whatever so we don't have to try
on these other champions or what but I'm
very happy to see Academy players one
being swapped into the LCS for whatever
reason and two finding success I mean
they winning going one in one in week
one and as well a lot of people looking
at their first loss as a game that would
have been entirely winnable if if they
didn't give up those three other kills I
love the move by the Oregon so I just I
just can't speak to
the reason why I the one of those
dentists impressed me was like you are
one of the most popular orgs and your
your popularity is carried by three
really big names and you decide to bench
all three of them at once that's like a
bold move at the very least cuz a lot of
I think a lot of owners and maybe jected
feel this way before you made the
decision would be nervous to do
something like that it was such an
unpopular decision right before the
start of the split and and kind of they
came out in and what at least in the
beginning was a pretty respectful um
yeah these other guys are trying really
hard you know it's kind of implied maybe
the other guys aren't trying is hard it
was just an interesting take I mean mark
separating like the conversation around
the meta or whatever what what do you
think of the decision whether or not I
like the I don't like the seeking
gesture not in the LCS I wish they were
in there but it is nice to see an org
kind of putting their foot down I think
over the course of the LCS there has
been a number of times some of which I
have heard about while I was coaching
that something like this probably should
have happened but people either do to
relegation or desire to go to Worlds did
not put their foot down in a way that
they may it might have been able to so
it I think this is one of the first
times that it has happened and that's
cool yeah I mean I also agree at that
point I don't I don't enjoy not seeing
sneaky and smoothy and Jensen in the LCS
like we all know that these are very
talented players with that we have
watched for four years
sneaky especially they should be playing
in the LCS but they should be playing in
the LCS when they are you know checking
all the boxes of an LCS player and again
that's for the organ the coach to decide
are they meeting all these requirements
to deserve to play in the LCS I mean
they lost to a seal Gees Academy team in
the chair like Adam e League last week
interesting I mean I think that's like
if we're
regardless of motivation it's like these
guys are down the cat got stellar
performances they look great and they
look terrible they're just kind of there
and let's say you know keeping golden
glue and stuff are actually looking good
then it makes sense even from a purely
objective standpoint right do you have
any other thoughts or takes on that
event Nexus I mean we kind of it sounds
like we mostly agree with you yeah I'd
say oh I saw a couple people in chat
mentioning that the benching decision
was made before the Metis shift and I
just say that I'd go off what Jack and
reapered head said since the players
haven't really said anything definitive
whether or not they can I don't know and
then of course there is that like
legitimate worrying that this is all a
smokescreen for making money in that
like arena deal or something they can
make nuclear scapegoats like if they if
sneaky Jensen and smoothie I'll come
back next week play I'd say like maybe
it's closer to that case like that
becomes a slight possibility but right
now I'd say that I put my trust in Jack
and reapered since he's been there coach
long enough I don't think he would have
brought something up to Jack if he
didn't honestly think there might be a
reason to match the players yeah I mean
it was easy at first
yeah go ahead mark then the whole deal
thing for their Academy stream like
promo and that's why they're down
there's like there's no fucking way like
no place they should I don't think
there's any way that that's the case it
was really hard not to think it was the
case whenever they announced it at the
exact same time it's like where I got an
academy storming deal and by the way our
three most popular players are gonna be
on that Academy team this week I get it
but like if you just look at the like
risk reward it's like that is just so
horribly imbalance eeeh and by the way
the fact like the human element of like
do you think Reaper this like and Jensen
and sneakier like yeah do you fuck it
let's just slum it up an Academy and
ruin our chances to get to Worlds
potentially hey the Academy is the
prestigious Lea they're not slumming it
up at all mark how dare you mark it up
Arius Murphy yes they're smurfing it up
that's so much better
yeah I mean anybody who watches the
interview that I did which is on my
youtube channel right now for
those that haven't watched it and they
should there's it's pretty obvious that
that Jack is really disappointed and the
players which and by the way like I
straight-up asked him like it was cuz
Jett it was interesting to see Jack just
on Twitter directly tweeting the players
like what the fuck are these tweets
essentially you don't he didn't say but
is essentially what is going on like you
guys are just memeing about this is this
real or not and and so I asked Jack
about it and you know he's he was the
first time I can remember an owner
expressing pretty obvious frustration
with his own players and maybe rightly
so depending on who you ask but it was
interesting for sure
yeah I just said okay anyone's ever
heard that like a CEO of a company they
work for something like that talk about
like a not-so Moyo situation that's like
literally when I heard him talk I don't
think he was trying to you know hide
anything he was legitimately
disappointed with what they were doing
yeah yeah that makes us think so much
for calling in thanks for having me no
moving on to the next color I want to
give a shout out to a couple different
people that are here a good go John
daniel has subbed a real talks to give
to us up to Nick Allen congratulations
Nick Allen he's definitely never said
himself but it's tough for four months
arrogant one atria akka sub shouts a
truck
good pal works at on video oh yeah boy
the worst fizz known to man yeah I was
watching his smash it's not very good
mainly player either it looks like looks
like we're back with sack D and B is
that has pronounced closest close enough
alright let's just we'll just roll
forward with that sack D and B where you
come from Orange California
okay so close by what do you want to
talk about on the show so after watching
the LCS this weekend I think that this
is like by far the best metaphor the
competitive scene that we've had just
because like now teams can have their
own individual identities and I think
that's really cool because like you know
in other traditional sports like
football you have teams that are like
you know they're really
heavy or they do a lot of passing
because you know they have like a really
good running back or whatever so you
know you know the Oakland Raiders as you
know such-and-such a team and they okay
can you speak up a little bit sec sorry
I've turned you up as much as possible
but yeah sorry yeah a little bit yeah
just speak throw throw your voice out
there so so yeah I think it's really
cool that we can have teams that are
kind of cramping their own identities
you know we had teams like double if you
know played Ziya this weekend pretty
traditional build around ready see we'll
kind of ignore that awful Wladimir game
and act like it didn't happen but then
you have teams like echo fox who are
kind of moving honey around and putting
him in his best matchup to just try and
flex him wherever they can and you you
had like g2 playing Heimerdinger bottom
and building around that and then like a
fanatic put ice on it and just funneled
everything into caps and that was really
cool because like it was a really
strange game the whole way through and i
felt like they were just getting their
asses kicked and then all sudden they
just like blew up at the end so I think
it's just kind of cool how we're I think
we're gonna see teams actually start to
carve out their own identities like you
know this is a team that typically plays
a traditional ADC whereas this is a team
that you know tries to do like that gold
tunnel strategy because that's what
they're good at yeah I I mean we spoke
with the color a little bit ago who who
felt like this was a terrible minute for
me it was super fun to see all the crazy
stuff that was happening I mean an era
was talking about how they've been
messing around we're all swap Startalk
said I'm in an interview with me that he
was he'd 1y named Rosa for a while it
seems like a lot of the veteran players
in particular are really embracing this
it's kind of funny that Peter said he
was so excited about playing different
characters in the bot lane and then had
that Vlad performance but I it's been
cool to see it's really cool to see sort
of the the different ways in which all
the different teams have utilized I
don't know if I agree that it's allowed
all them to have a unique identity
because I mean that I think we'll have
to see overtime if that occurs but I
think a lot of having an identity crisis
yeah maybe that's it
we've I've been throwing to mark
recently so let's go with - first
yeah I mean so I again pretty much agree
with most of what you're saying I enjoy
seeing change and I enjoy diversity the
one thing that I don't love is the gold
funnel strat if we're talking
specifically about the meta that I don't
necessarily enjoy watching gold funnel
strats because I don't want to see some
of my favorite players or some of like
the best players in the world playing
things like tarik or playing things like
Brahm in the mid lane granted one thing
that we've talked about on the analyst s
is we're waiting to see more teams start
putting those star players in the jungle
then you know like echo fox is doing
they're choosing to take their star
player and put him in whatever role in
that game or that draft they're gonna
choose to carry or do something you know
interesting so hey run the e funnel
compa put faker on it I would be curious
to see how that works
instead of putting faker on Terry but in
general I don't enjoy metas that
encourage non interaction and a lot of
those Gold funnel strats encourage non
interaction because you're trying to get
to a an item break point and get enough
ahead on a single champion that you then
can interact with the opposing team but
with such a large advantage you can't
lose so I don't really love to see them
edit in that way but pretty much in
every other way we're seeing it manifest
right now the fact that we're seeing yos
and Swain's in the bot lane along with
mordekaiser's darius is anything from
brahms to brands - we're seeing Nocturne
and we're seeing crazy stuff in the top
lane - like I love the diversity and I
love that it's forcing teams to start to
reevaluate like how they approach the
game and what they prioritize because
again we're seeing some teams
immediately more successful than other
teams I think at understanding how to
win given the meta I would only disagree
with - on the goal funneling strategy if
I felt like it was the best way to play
the game or like clear-cut that way and
as of right now just based off it's gold
or a twin rate and it's pick rate and
things like that
I don't mind because it that it exists
because it feels more like an opt-in
strategy like if if if it's the optimal
way to play and faker has to play ye are
of tarik and like yeah fuck that but
like I'm pretty convinced right now from
what I've seen that they don't have to
be doing that and again I'm more mad I'm
more mad at the players in the team for
picking that for you faker than I am at
the riot balanced team but either way I
don't want to I don't want to see it
either
it's just when I add a sec do you have
any any additional nuts yeah and like
the gold phone Oh strategy of all the
new ones that we've seen is definitely
my least favorite just for the fact that
it's like you know you literally just
watch everybody feat gold into the mid
laner and then all of a sudden like we
saw in the fnatic game at the end it
like does you know 180 and you know all
sudden fanatics and their base blowing
off so nothing you know just the team
that's gold funneling just either does
nothing or just gets to stomp for 20
minutes and then you know now with 600
CS or whatever each close up it kills
everybody but I think the fact that that
is such a like mark was talking about
such a nice strategy you know not
everybody can do it it's definitely not
on paper just to go to best strategy I
think it's pretty cool and you know we
won't see it every game but like some
teams might be good at it and pull it
out every now and again so I think it'll
just be it'll be refreshing that it's
not just like who can do the 131 the
best okay you're the best team it's like
you know we'll see different strategies
every game and I think it'll help from a
viewers perspective of not getting so
stable because will constantly be having
you know one or two games of this
strategy one or two of this one rather
than just you know the same for ATC's
and it's like oh wow we're seeing sia
again you know yeah yeah sex is there
anything besides gold funneling you
don't like about the meadow um I pretty
much enjoy it most of it like I thought
it I thought all the games like
Heimerdinger bottom was really exciting
and cool to see and it wasn't like too
crazy and out there and then we had like
you know we had a couple traditional ADC
games like it was cool to see you know I
play pretty much just Ezreal so like you
know as somebody that plays ADC like
Ezreal still met up but I was kind of
like oh no like our marksman dead but it
was kind of cool did you see double
lives like
shit on everyone that saying that like
look I can still plays I as she's
supposed to be one of these terrible
crit ABCs and still win so yeah I
enjoyed the week and I thought it was
one of the best ones I've seen so far
yeah thanks axe so much for the the call
thanks a lot guys thank you man moving
on a couple more a couple more people
just shout out sham sham sham gifted us
up two colors of life the Plex subbed
Beto 69 has serious sub to purple rake
hue result for two months Skyfall 3 665
batshit churro which is literally how
it's spelled Rhys up for two months
and then a cock off PhD resell at tier 3
for 2 months thank you so much to Karkov
all hail the basedgod is calling in
where you going
that's what it says for me to see white
X c YX is calling you on Oh
either way what what is your I don't
know why it's showing that this Court is
up to no good
what where you come from I'm calling
from Columbus Ohio Columbus Ohio have
you been on the show before I have not
ok we feel like we've had something from
Columbus before but maybe it's a big
city with more than one person what
would you like to talk about on the show
tonight my hot take is that this is the
best competitive meadow we've had since
like season three and four and that
there's only two teams being TSM and
echo fox that are actually playing it
correctly oh okay well we already talked
to somebody who says that the bet is
great so I don't know if we need that
but explain to me a little bit about why
only TSM and echo fox are playing it
correctly for me it's about the way that
they're playing towards their players
strengths themselves like individually
so we've seen like Dirksen on the irelia
twice and like they're identifying that
like Sven is playing traditional
marksmen because that's what he's the
best at and then Pearson's playing hard
carry mid laners like what we remember
him playing the Zed's and everything
when he was popping off in the beginning
not the gallio's of stuff of like the
past couple seasons and i think that
that's why they maintained like their
strengths so far just in the first
weekend and what will carry them through
the season is that they're able to find
their players strengths and play to
those really well
even with echo fox they move Tunis
around and put him in the roles that
they needed him and he's arguably one of
the best players about the best player
in the na LCS culture well um
mark uh where are you saying that
they're gonna stay the best team so that
they're the best teams right now I think
that they're gonna stay the best teams
because of that I might disagree on that
point I think them the best teams right
now in that it felt like they knew what
they wanted man like I don't think
golden Guardians with like definitely
saying I don't something a lot of the
lines of like he just not really
comfortable or doesn't really like Nam
marks not really what you told hater I
interviewed him when he says he presses
the X in the top right corner of his
client whatever he yeah play marksman
yeah so the fact that he played black
Mir to me was like why do you like
minute ban out all the marksman like I
don't think the matchups was that badly
can you probably find a marksman to play
there so like some some teams just
straight up seem like they're
experimenting right now whereas to base
god or see white X is point that yeah
like I think echo Fox has some stuff
that they have up their sleeve that they
practice on it makes sense for their
roster same with TSM they're still
playing the meta in terms of the strong
picks but they're not like really
branching out there and trying to put
spend on things that Sven doesn't really
want or enjoy playing yeah I largely
agree I think I would throw two other
teams in I think echo fox is probably
just right now number one this is off of
two games sample size so understand that
that's very little information but I
would probably put echo fox up there I
do agree similarly that TSM is playing
the meta smartly because they are
playing to their strengths as you
mentioned not branching out further than
they need to I would throw c9 up there
and I would throw CLG up there based on
c9 again showing us things like the
Nocturne jungle which no one else is
showing with the cup paired with the
Shen top so really utilizing like
Able's and level six mechanics to find
their leaves and that's how they
initially found their comeback in their
game one that they ended up losing and
then CLG as Mark pointed out there day
one draft was like really really
intriguing
it was the Oren Brom Renekton where
Renekton ended up going mid but they
very easily could have put Brom it with
Oren bottom
Renekton top or whatever and so it's
just like a really flexible draft that I
think still had a lot of tools to win
the game
so I would probably put a few more teams
up there in terms of I wouldn't be so
ready after a week one to say two teams
are definitively the top two teams in
the league mark is mean they're the Cena
and CLG deserves the honor as well I
didn't deserve the honor of like feeling
like they knew what they wanted to do I
think like the first game foreseen I was
just tragedy like oh yeah brand sounds
good
yeah okay and then they just died that
was that's a little rough I'm not quite
sure even though those teams look better
than those other two teams right now no
I don't think by execution or even by
you know game result they look better
but they're playing lead II mean in a
conversation of which teams understand
the matter or how they should play in
the meta and might you know be top tier
teams through the first few weeks like I
would put them in that conversation
because I don't think you can also say
after two games that TSM just is top two
okay yeah I would say I would include
Team Liquid then if if it's like I think
they're really good I think
level one they probably tried to do
something that in theory can work and is
a cute strategy but they just fucked up
on like if Olay and doublelift went to
the wave together level one oleic use it
double it to ease it they execute with
the target stacks on the Alistar and
they push the wave together they
probably closely get that into turret
before the only team gets back or at
least make it so that they're fine
instead they get frozen on and their
soul goes downhill from there and with
how the meta is it was kind of over and
goalie Guardians didn't play well as
well so
I would say I expect Team Liquid to
bounce back pretty heavily I didn't I
didn't read too far into that loss that
was just like well that was one of the
dumbest things I've seen of wladim you
try to do ya see why X what do you think
about the feel gc9 idea for me it's kind
of weird because see on when they slept
in the three obviously everyone's gonna
be skeptical because losing Jensen's
sneaking a smoothie is kind of a big
shift but I mean overall I think they
played pretty well you can see the
synergy of those Academy players
together for CLG they look I think they
looked pretty good they're lost to you
TSM was kind of tragic but I mean
overall I think those teams do look
pretty decent I guess for me it's just
I'm seeing a lot of people playing
things like obviously you're saying
trying it out and it is the only the
first week but I'm seeing a lot of
people like picking the Vladimir and
like it's like stuff like that in the
bottling and it just looks bad to me
every time I see them like puddle when
they shouldn't and just stuff like that
it's just you can see like the non
polish like I want to change the spell
name to puddle now puddles oh yeah like
you can see like the lack of polish on
those champions it's like clearly
marksmen are still a viable and strong
strategy and I would just like to see
other teams just rely on what they're
strong at currently and then while they
maybe learn the new things that could be
viable in those positions but it seems
to me that TSM and echo Fox have already
figured that out and then barring some
crazy meta ships which obviously is very
possible with such a volatile patch
everything like that but I can see them
just maintaining this momentum in like
strength throughout just because with
other changes like the snowballing of
games and things like that if that
doesn't change too much then I can see
them just closing games out and
destroying the rest of the split - you
look like you're in a trance right now
what is everything okay
you're like turned and you're like look
like something just swiveling in my
chair okay very thoughtful about
everything yeah exactly
all right very good I I can't believe
every sleeping on golden Guardians come
in there bust out the team liquid or
what 22 minutes it's the year the
I don't want it like I mean it C YX is
saying and I don't wanna say it but it
might be the year of the Lord oh it
might be the year of the Lord O on
record where do you think golden guys
will round out the year six oh this is
good sixth yeah I think they won b9 raid
boss lux
I think they speak in it by the way
that's not entirely because golden
Guardians are so good it's because I'm
hearing like behind the scenes and you
know I thought there are a lot of teams
that are just really bad so so and but
also by the way a lot of teams that are
really good like I'm pretty excited
because I think TSO should be a stronger
contender the split than they have been
I think I don't think clutch is gonna
fall like I'm I'm pretty excited for
summer split I don't know I don't know
if we're gonna end up like I don't know
if the region overall is gonna send
strong enough contenders to really shake
things up at Worlds but I do think that
things are going to get spicy around
playoffs we should see some interesting
stuff there so yeah either way thank you
see yx4 calling it yeah thanks dude all
right moving on got about four or five
more callers left I want to give a shout
out to SHINee froakie who we set for
four months I love you dad for it I
don't know what that means as enigma
this is Pawar's so many with the name -
mark do you see him having name - anyway
I did in chat but I changed it to my
normal okay it hasn't updated for me so
it still says - what is your regular
it's Lord more that that's what Lord
more DAP Lord more death not - Lord more
death were you trying to sneak into the
show before - well it's dark - is number
one everyone is bad exactly
see right now just as - to me wait dark
dances number one that dark yes get out
not the real one yeah yeah where it's
dark - the real - we don't know if dark
- becomes the real - this universe is in
a dark place uh Lord more death where
you calling from
I'm calling from Las Vegas Nevada Las
Vegas nice oh when I click your name it
shows it okay uh listen yeah what do you
what do you want yeah well I yes but
that's not what's displaying on my
screen what do you want to talk about on
the show tonight I was talking more
about viewership and the fact that I
think that echo fox is the most
enjoyable team to watch on stream okay
and I feel that most the other teams are
kind of boring to watch and that not
only do I feel that they're
competitively the best boss or the best
to watch well we were just talking too
much people who said that the splits
amazing and like there's all sorts of
crazy stuff happening but you think echo
fox is the only team that isn't boring
to watch I felt like the highlight of
the TSM comeback team fight was good but
otherwise it was pretty slow there was
kind of methodical like their game like
CLG tends to play until they int and
then like TSM plays generally but echo
fox is always crazy like they always
play really aggressive they play a lot
of macro and they are very entertaining
to watch in every game they play for the
final 30 minutes of echo Fox's match
yesterday I was really bored I was just
watching mark and everybody full-time so
I did I did not find that that very
entertaining I've know that this is your
favorite issue of the day no it's not my
favorite issue is this I was just
beaming listen he's just calling us bad
at our job what that's why you said you
were entertained
oh yeah I think I'm saying right we're
bad at their jobs but yes you guys were
not it was great cuz the amount of times
- just goes uh we're still we're still
looking for an update worse that we're
still waiting for the confirmation on
what's happening but Jett those are
great hats on you where did you get
those pants because I those are they're
fantastic they're probably props to you
guys for Phillip anymore
finally some recognition all right well
whatever
echovox though at entertaining and very
entertaining I feel like my concern is a
lot of people are saying great things
about
Fox and an arrow their coach has just
been hanging on the chat all day we're
gonna give him a too big of an ego he
never wants to call in new this team did
well so he just comes here on him in
like a few months back yeah he called it
once but mostly just comes here and
takes his pants off
Lord Meredith why is echo Fox so
entertaining because they mix it up man
it's not the same thing you see every
game like though always see something a
little weird or pix I mean who needs a
big part of it but it's not just him
anymore
like all tech go and mundo is the rengar
top like you're seeing the five bruiser
team like that's great stuff to watch
man it's so entertaining yeah so you're
just think that they just do the
craziest stuff and that would that's
what makes them well it's not they're
not the only teams to do that anymore I
mean like if you look at LPL stuff I
know you don't follow it that much but
they they do a lot of things
prostitution but I think that echo fox
has taken like some of the the thing
that's the correct way to play right now
and it just so happens to also be very
entertaining to watch so ok but you
think they're the only I mean you you
said that like the rest of the NA teams
are boring that that's what you said
when you called it I mean so maybe
okay so echo fox is cool shit I mean
explain to me why everybody else is
boring so the reason why I think is is
that so TSM just is playing the same way
it always is it's very effective but it
doesn't seem like it's different the
chants are different but it's not a very
drastic different strategy from what
they normally play and same thing with
CLG like the picks are different but
they're macro and how they were playing
the game is not different from what they
normally do whereas you were seeing like
that because the champion is getting
swapped top and you're getting five you
five fiestas in the bot lane like it's
way more LPL like and how they're doing
teamfights and all that stuff yeah and
it's not just them I felt that the Team
Liquid game the game that they won was
very standard for what they do and I
watched hundred thieves and they lost
how they always lose so just it's just
how they it doesn't feel like anyone's
in it I don't think going Guardians won
the way they are is win well they did
when I mean they don't want that often
so it's hard to gauge
well team leaks but I'm trying to figure
out if we're talking about entertainment
value or right cause if we're talking
about enjoyment to watch then I'm just
what a result of my game should be
irrelevant to the discussion range of
some degree right yeah okay because
otherwise I like my big argument my big
argument here would be that like well
I'm a professional team and a
professional player who's paid to win
games in a competitive setting so my
goal in a sense is not to be entertained
like I absolutely when the product
you're selling is to be entertaining but
that's not the that's not the players
the players responsibility is to win I'm
not saying that it is their
responsibility to be entertaining I'm
not telling them to go out and play
fiestas but the the team was competitive
doing their job to win and also be
entertaining for the viewer all right
separating like intention I actually
kind of agree with dark Dash's fans
point like I didn't watch how TSM played
and think like wow like that was that's
basically like what you like it was very
smart it's what they should be doing and
I'm not saying they should but I kind of
agree like in terms of people who busted
out crazy strats there weren't a ton of
Na compared to other regions
and I think heartedly agree yeah I think
internationally there are a lot of
really cool teams to watch I agree and
especially like LPL stuff and then even
MVP was doing the they're the first ones
who did the Cherokee on stage and it was
ridiculous
but it was against cart this new new you
know yeah I just I just I don't disagree
with you like you're telling me to stack
rank teams that I want to watch right
now because of entertainment value then
yeah
echovox and a bunch of teams from other
regions are are topping that list but I
guess my struggle is is like coming to
grips with what you what you're asking
for or what you want when again the
teams and the players themselves they're
first and foremost responsibility is to
win I don't think is complaining I'm not
complaining he's just stating I think
they're the most entertaining yeah
the best of their ability to win and I
don't think that they're doing
necessarily anything wrong mercury but
good is that they are they that echo fox
is playing to win and they're also the
most entertaining team to watch and got
them just that I most entertaining team
in the league's coach in chat or in
voice comms now hello Nick hey what's up
Nick wait did we add we added him to the
call yeah ambushed his voice his
microphone is not working down huh this
is what we don't this is why we always
do the tech check I'm sorry drag someone
get about get out of here all right here
we go back where the mic works no that
was not working that was not working
all right well Mark's got let him go
play pattycake with an arrow no it's
working and Nick just wanna make me look
bad I was slightly like unplugged from a
monitor it's fixed now though all right
so so what the purpose of bringing an
arrow here is the guy who says are the
most entertaining to watch now we've got
the coach here and he can say I agree
well I just want to hear if
entertainment value or like what is it
like to be the most entertaining team
does he care and an arrow how many
drafts do you throw out saying this is
too boring before you you decide all the
webOS enter together you're like no yeah
I mean we're just for fun region you
know as well I don't know make it
entertaining if you're not gonna win
world yeah I think we're just doing the
analogies we're like pretty early game
focused team I think everyone's pretty
aware of that and we either heart in or
we hard win and there's kind of no
in-between so I think that's just kind
of entertaining I guess but I'm pretty
big on encouraging players to have fun
with their pigs too that's why I mean I
just have someone weird stuff pop up
it's just cool to see a team that like
biases their identity 100% like if
you're gonna win or lose by it you're
just gonna do it yeah I guess like a lot
of teams in na are kind of happy just
doing nothing all game as well and
waiting till they get the late game and
getting barren
and then winning I think Europe does the
same thing - it's kind of sad but I
don't know my my skype is uh it's going
Walker so we're gonna go to a different
slate while while we're waiting for this
cap to come back that reels are still in
discord thankfully an arrow what I mean
what what is it you is it just that you
encourage the guys to do different stuff
for what why is it that it's it's so
different I don't know if it's like
encouraging that really does it I think
like maybe some team shutdown ideas if
they think they sound too off-base like
the first thought I came in with echo
fox we did something with Pantheon top
or looper play Pantheon in the Canon
right because ken was the meta thing
yeah usually when we come into stuff
like that and we know something's like a
big met up Pig like I'll always talk to
players and ask like what do you think
screws this pic over and what's like
really good into it so that way if we
have to draft around it like okay I can
leave this pick up and the teams are
guaranteed gonna pick that and we can
draft their whole strategy around it and
then we can just use this pig and mess
with it right so I mean that pops some
things up that can work like we have
pigs tested already that we didn't get
to use this weekend because we thought
teams would have priority on a different
power pick that they didn't have so yeah
I have some stuff with that also that I
just like break your stream know
anything have involved in just like
breaking things no no I have no idea and
now this is a good meme no I think Skype
itself is maybe down or something I'm
not sure what's going on - I sent you a
friend request on skype I don't know if
that'll allow you to to join the call or
what's gonna happen but assuming you're
still there - you're at Perry but we
lost we lost - as well one of the dashes
is here but I oh hey - you know what I
bet you - and Mark Mark said at the
start of the show that his internet had
been having issues and it went out
earlier I bet you - and Mark have the
same ISP in the same area and both their
internet just died so I
so guess what an arrow and Lord Meredith
you're now my co-host for the rest of
the show I mean I would put my camera on
I guess but I have no shirt on I know I
don't want to mess with that right now
it's unsurprising to me that you don't
have a shirt on but so welcome welcome
Lord more death and an arrow to the show
my co-hosts for the rest of of the show
or until - and market their internet
back what all right let's move on let's
take it back scholar we should get
another color yeah
anyway let's see let's see who I have to
go an arrow if I send you into the into
the waiting room can you oh wait they're
calling back I want to do it I want to
do this though hello Oh mark is calling
from his phone I'm ready to continue the
show our block lost power for the second
time today so both yes - have lost it as
well by the way we don't have - ash -
lives like on like one building away
from me so yeah it's the block okay well
so we've decided that Lord more death
and an arrow or new Coast that's what I
was - or okay good
marty'll three pictures amazing yeah
yeah he's people will think I'm cropping
it this way that's just actually on his
phone and does it know how to frame his
head correctly that's pretty solid yeah
yeah it's this is the next level
technology we've got here oh that's good
oh there's someone in the background
no okay oh you can't you're not on
discord are you know like I can't
continue the show honestly okay well um
so you can want me to go get it yourself
yeah yes I'm going to finish it with an
arrow and Lord more death
yes it's just making arrow me Lord more
lap is already dark - his number one fan
so you can just step up okay and you can
get the rest of the call I'm gonna hope
your internet comes back soon and then
well because I'm I guess
doing videos and stuff like that will be
a disaster so just I'm gonna hang up on
you now let me know if your stuff comes
back all right will do all right all
right nice mashallah yes well no that's
not how that works but you are on the
show as my co-host okay so an arrow let
me know I think I can give you admin
privileges okay yes
you've now got all of Marc's power so
move to the waiting room check and see
if the if the caller has the right audio
and then drag them in here after you ask
them what their question is and verify
that they're a real person all right
cool I'll move in yeah I'll be Ben all
right send them over there Lord Merida
tell us a little bit about yourself
since you're new the new co-host of the
show well I've been an LCS fan for a
long time but this is the year that's
really made me more engaged with the
community and everything involved so big
shout out to you into na LCS production
it's been a really fun yep well
fantastic where did you say you live
again Las Vegas Las Vegas nice okay well
maybe after the show oh we've got I did
dill dill bows on the show Toba dildo
where you come from okay you're a little
quiet can you get a little closer to
your mic yes okay little little further
away from your mic I'm not sure if it's
me this week a hard deal though okay all
right I think we're good now
just keep it in that general vicinity
dildo I don't know if you've been
keeping up but unfortunately we lost -
and Mark - a power outage so we've got
lured more death and narrow here who are
the coolest what did you want to talk
about on the show today dildo so
basically all I wanted to say was I
don't think echo fog should have been
granted the win for free I think they
should have just played another day we
scheduled at a double-header or
something like that similar to something
they do in sports well I guess yeah yeah
nice topic yes
this is great I'm super happy because
Marc pulled you with this topic before
we had an arrow but now you'll be able
to talk about it with an arrow the coach
of echo Fox can you can you elaborate a
little bit more on why you think that
well I just think it might play a game
for another day well they wasn't
rescheduled it I think they would have
just made people play it again right
there
the difficulty yeah go ahead and please
don't part them in there I got in
trouble I'm not gonna rules I'm pretty
sure they just kind of had to make a
decision they're like delaying the game
is something that it probably would have
gotten a lot of flack for cuz like we'd
have to plan a different patch and
everything to so I think they're just
wanting to set a precedent for it since
it's the first time it's actually
happened where they couldn't just chrono
break it cuz like in the past either
like chrono breaking technology was
already aware like hey it's not here
like with the vitality Giants thing they
were like yeah we don't have chrono
braking ready right now
and everyone knew it and it just
happened so it was really unlucky so
they just remade and that was their
decision and I think they just you know
thought this was the best decision and
that's what they went for so obviously
it's favorable towards us and sucks for
clutch but I don't really know the best
approach is but I'm probably just best
to make some rule that's kind of maybe
better but I don't know I'm obviously
biased I guess because I'm on one side
of it would that be a bad thing no to
even
it could put that be a thing in the
future to reschedule a game if a delay
takes they would every scheduled it they
would just played it that day but why
why can't they
why can't that be an option well because
we you think it's more fair for the team
that was doing well that have to remake
rather than the team that was losing
take their loss sure I think like yeah
they would they would make it like in
the day that's usually how they do when
things like that happen like I have
tiebreakers they do it in the day just
cuz they don't want to have like games
looming there that are gonna make their
schedule last longer later on because
that kind of blows for them you know
and obviously like between the two
obviously if clutch gets to remake then
they get like a second chance to win
since they were down gold right and then
it's revealed we revealed that we up
until you jungle with yeah players in
their own plays that sucks and it's just
kind of unfortunate because teams go in
expecting only to play one game and if
they revealed one thing that's possible
that would change the whole draft so
it's kind of like right it's obviously
gonna go on to be like okay well echo
fox was winning and it's unfair to them
and it's unfair to a clutch so we're
just gonna give it to the team who's
winning I think the decision is probably
pretty hard for riot and people are
giving them a lot of shit for it but it
would be more directed at like the rule
that's in place rather than the actual
decision itself Dale Bo really hang on
we're gonna pause really quickly I'm
adding one more person of the call who
might Lord Meredith we might say good
mighty after this :
and then I might actually do video with
this person I appreciate the extra time
that you had me on the show yeah well we
stick around for the end of this call
we've got hunter all he needs to unmute
himself oh there we go we've got hunter
who was watching the show ahead of Gold
guardians and former guy from riot that
did League ops stuff and had to actually
make calls like this before
Hunter yeah maybe you can provide
context on like how what your role was
that riot and how you handled this stuff
yeah so I was the head of League ops for
North America for a year and a half and
so would have been the guy in the back
assisting the head ref at the time who
was Raven Keane and he was head
reference till just recently and
thinking through these kinds of things
and so I agree I think with an arrow in
this case like this there is no good
outcome here right like you are
you're a disadvantaging one team or the
other no matter what you do but I think
you want to try as hard as possible to
let games be determined like on the
field
and that rule in my mind was always like
a a worst-case scenario like people are
seating the Nexus the other team is a
stew like there's there's literally no
other possible outcome but that one team
would win that's that's in my mind what
that rule would have done so I don't
think that riot made the wrong decision
because I think I don't I don't know
that this is a right or wrong case and I
don't like I don't think I don't think
these things are that black and white
but I will say I think I would have made
the other decision and had you guys
remake the game that's that's like my
that's despite my opinion in my sort of
sense from from being on the other side
of that of what I would have done oh
sure you would have had them remade it
yeah yeah because you can't chrono break
it right so you know when I was there
Colonel Baker didn't Colonel break
didn't exist and so you know we sort of
had a remake or no remake system like it
was pretty black-and-white they tried to
chronobreak I assume and it didn't work
because this is I mean I'd literally
never seen a server crash like that so
and I can't imagine chronobreak was
designed with that in mind but given the
kernel break didn't work you're kind of
in the conditions that I was in you know
when I was on stage of worlds when like
the Gragas cube bugged out and we were
trying to figure out what to do and and
all of that which is like a remake or no
remake and I think as much as possible
you want things decided on on the field
on the rift so you you go for you go for
a remake in that case that's my sense
and there are two things Oh what Marcus
Marcus you can kick everyone out now I'm
yeah which is - here I don't think so -
had to go at eight okay well it's not
eight but an arrow okay really quickly
let's let me just address a couple
things an arrow can you get on skype can
I get on skype sure video can you put a
shirt on reply to my message on discord
technically you no longer need to put a
shirt on on please see if my video even
works okay I haven't used this camera in
like a year while you messed it while
you while you handle that you should
also maybe reply to hunter who disagrees
with the idea they well I guess you
don't disagree hunter right you're like
okay with the way it went but you would
have done it differently yeah he would
have just picked the other decision
right yeah I mean I think either way
it's like the same decision it's the
same thing like one side is always gonna
be pissed so neither side is good it's
just like well this team was winning by
a pretty good amount so I guess it's
less shitty to give them the win since
they already almost won but it just
sucks either way I don't I don't really
care about the decision that much
obviously I'm not affected that much by
it but it just sucks either way yeah
very unlucky for both teams hey boy - is
back - okay don't need to turn your
webcam on and arrow we're gonna get rid
of you
we're gonna get rid of Lord more death
we're get rid of hunter we're resume the
show
thanks so much hunter thank you got an
arrow thank you Lord Meredith Thank You
dildo for your call sure while we're all
here go for it I thought it was the
Janome thought it was rude of you to
make that young lady behind you oh I
asked her ahead of time if she could do
that I asked her politely but it's
always nice to meet a knight you know
Thank You dildo alright I'm getting rid
of all of you guys goodbye Lord morta
goodbye hunter
goodbye an arrow goodbye dildo marks
marks stuff is still coming back in
we're waiting your webcam hasn't
finished popping up yet there we go fuck
my screen it's not at least yeah so mark
and I live pretty close can you meet
yourself on skype - oh yes yeah
and you know you're good I don't know
why about our team's not working I'll
try and unplug it and plug it back in
okay well that's a good photo yeah you
like that people are still the best 2014
III yeah so it's so enthusiastic while
Marcus is handling his stuff oh yeah -
you were saying you guys had a and so
mark and I live pretty close to each
other as you can tell by the fact that
both of our powers power went out at the
same time yeah yeah that was great I was
very lost and confused because Skype
dropped out first and then you guys were
both in discord cuz this court takes up
a lot of drop so I was like oh god crash
that's weird
- dash - can you accept I don't - hello
are you there and then I am provides I'm
pretty proud of how I improvised but
we're back we're bad we made it
yeah mark and fortune is funny into this
show yes yes last 20 minutes we got
three more people to go through so let's
- err sorry mark if you want to go grab
somebody really quick
sure would be good thank you - Chen's
ill for reselling oceans Andrew double-o
the double-oh-seven spy for life mel
amaz rebel comm who resub nene Jojo we
suck for two months with hi dad
interesting name JB for six to resub it
says best Leslie content keep it up cool
Ross 33 shadowmen by HP and then finally
of oh you one who reset for five months
that said that game was closer to 102 0
for echovox than 50/50 that's why the
decision made sense
there we go everybody chimed in and if
you enjoyed the shit show that was the
last 10 minutes as we fought to get
everything back into control
feel free to sub it's pretty much
appreciated we got Jensen who is the
well gypsum do you want explain who you
are it's not a different job okay we
have dr. Justin Allison out that's like
I guess it's Asian Jensen because I'm
calling from Vietnam from Ho Chi Minh
City and I'm the coach for the Evo's
team and I was with them during the MSI
you guys didn't see me on stage but you
guys saw me in the stands
and that's that's my profile picture at
the moment so my question is that all
right am i hot thing is that I feel that
the way North American teams approach
the game it feels very safe it is that's
this very survival mentality towards it
where they've overly focused on the
comfort of players to the point where it
gives you overall strategic development
of themes where players who go in there
and say that I can really play Vladimir
I'm not willing to play the Terek I'm
not willing to play the master yi and as
a result teams maybe they play once in
scrims and then didn't what actually
happens is that you will end up feeding
a lot with the strategy we have let's
try it so I'm guessing that they tried
and then they think that oh we dyed a
lot of times maybe they want the game
maybe they lost the game and this
doesn't work so they just throw it out
the window
and we just default to what the players
are comfortable with anything of how
they can win because to death as
compared to themes like snake which we
see in the LPL based on the first week
we lost a week I don't know this for
sure I'm guessing that they took a good
hard look at themselves and how to me
within this meta game they brought in
new supports all these booster champions
and they have had a very very
interesting very innovative way to play
this very game centric user compositions
and then we see in Europe so this goes
back to the whole meta game thing once
again
we're in Europe you're doing the kaiser
thing and the recklessness like jannah'
all of a sudden gotcha so to sum it all
up your concern that North American
players are stubborn refused to learn
new champions or at least maybe they
lose a little bit whenever they take the
new champions in the scrims and then
give up on it and it's going to perhaps
hurts North America that the evidence
that we haven't adapted to the meta or
we haven't done as many crazy things as
other regions as a bad sign for North
America is that fair the let apartment
to let the profit is fair the first
button say that that I'm saying that
they're stubborn
does just postulation my part because I
definitely do not do not know what's
happening in the gaming houses but I do
know that as somebody who has coached
leaves and LS PL in LMS there's always
going to be pushback from players when
you get them to play things that they're
not familiar with so it's about how do
you handle this
conflict and who gets priority that's my
BD it might be the result of why we're
seeing things it's even an MS I would be
proud but even when we looked at the
games it's like this team they just sit
there and I've been doing nothing yeah I
like this a lot I think it's a really
interesting topic I mean I don't know -
remark if you want to take it first I
want to hear from mark because he has
experience coaching yeah yeah I think I
never played feedback I never had a
situation where the meadow was so
topsy-turvy that like our players
weren't uh familiar with like or like
just a post meta and on curse in season
four we kind of had the opposite problem
we're like boy boy and quass had a lot
of weird pocket picks and it was almost
like can we settle down a little bit but
I definitely think especially if you
know the feeling of the meadow was that
it's like oh it's an accident or riot
will revert this even then I see I could
totally see more players not wanting to
do it I had a funny like Jay and I were
joking towards the end of day two when
we saw how much marksmen was how many
marks and we're still being played in
North America we're like I wonder if
like the teams that tried stuff lost
were convinced it wasn't very good and
then marksmen are gonna get buffed soon
with like a 12 and a 13 or something and
then like North America just completely
gives up on these strategies because I'm
like scared that that's actually what's
gonna happen chime in here because
there's some similar sentiment in
Vietnam as well yet some massive player
meeting yesterday and I'm hearing a
little bit of that from some of the
teams they actually believe that you
know what let's just send back the first
three games replay what we're
comfortable with and then we hope that
riot fixes everything so but by the time
the third week or fourth Lee comes
around we don't have to worry about
Marcy Terry and I I don't think that
that's a good mentality because at MSI
is all about adaptation and you have to
adapt over the course of five days the
day like but I do think that then the
conversation like has to expand outward
again to like it's all team by team and
as you mentioned but you you don't know
why the the plot none of us know why the
players are being resistant or even if
they are being resistant necessarily in
in scrims around the new stuff but but
again I would a team like echo Fox has
found their way to win but just because
that they found their way to win doesn't
mean that's the best way for TSM twin is
the best way for golden Guardians to win
is the best way for snake to win and
likewise so then like I look at the
example ago yes I'm so happy that snake
dove in and said hey it within all of
this like how do we come out on top how
do we come out with the victory at the
end of the day and the solution for us
is to bring in our sub support so that
we can do the gold final strategy with
people who have a mastery of the
champions that they're playing but I'm
not sure that that's the right decision
for TSM as well they might not have a
sub support whose cape who's that
capable or maybe they don't have the
person who can play Master Yi well
enough or they don't have the
understanding of the macro strategy
around that that supports making that
change and then I would expand that one
more time to the idea that like win
rates and the number of different
strategies that are being played to me
it doesn't seem like anyone knows the
best way to play League of Legends right
now and so even more so I think it's
hard to criticize teams for what they're
doing or not doing
based on that I think it's hard to
pinpoint anything but two Asian Jenson's
like concerns good Jason I don't know if
we need if I don't want to keep like
what are we more concerned about life
Evos Jensen Eve Austin he called himself
Asian Jensen first I just want to
confuse viewers on but you can call
himself Asian Jensen you can work oh I
see how this is Travis
anyway two Evo's gents to this point
like I I would be concerned like it's
hard to pinpoint on any one specific
team the exact reasons they're doing
anything but if all of North America has
a much heavier bias towards the previous
meta I do think that is a
like symptom for concern that like maybe
we don't as a region adapt very well or
like the reason that we have to play
this way in that new strategies are not
the best way for our players to play is
because we are worse at thinking out the
game and the meta and these kinds of
things so I but I again I agree with
that like that in the sense that I mean
international play or international
results kind of speak directly to that
right we see we see ma teams fall out
while other regions choose to adapt
adopt the tournament meta but I want to
push back on the mentality that all
teams must accept what is considered
good and say now we need to learn that I
rather come at it from the approach of
what is the our team think is the best
way for us to learn or to win and that's
what we should practice not what has
been after one week internationally or
globally determined as the optimal way
to play league of placing an experiment
I want teams to say hey this change came
through so if we play this champion how
does it but hey you know what we play 10
games of it and you clearly don't have
an understanding that champion or this
style of play like what else works for
us because I don't I would almost keep
it very rarely what I can test there's
one optimal way to play League of
Legends I think that all pro players all
pro teams are more stubborn than they
should be when it comes to looking for
new ways to find victories but you you
can kind of see the concern when a giant
patch comes out that changes everything
up all the other regions start like
doing stuff that seems very experimental
with that patch and we see that the
least in North America well and to be
fair I know teams practiced a lot of
this stuff like in prep for the split
talked to a handful of players and teams
and coaches and stuff and like a lot of
them like I heard about Shyvana
mordekaiser from a team way before I saw
in the LPL so it's not like they weren't
trying things but I definitely am
concerned that like maybe we didn't
learn how to play it properly
whatever strategy it is not necessarily
Mordecai's we got maybe just too afraid
and ran back to yeah yeah likes yeah
that we didn't see the success right
away and we gave up on it and we just
went back to comfort but you're you're
less concerned about that - no I am
concerned my point is oh sorry I I
struggle with the idea that ma I I don't
like this I don't think it's isolated na
I think it's across all teams all teams
across all regions are stubborn but I
don't actually fault teams when the meta
is in its craziest point that it's been
in five years I don't fault teams for
actually in this case being more
measured and let's remember that like
this was just week one they still have
to play again next week and I'm sure
more stuff will come out as they become
more comfortable but I'm not ready can
in this specific case as ready to
contend condemned teams necessarily for
what they did or didn't try because
ultimately if it's not ready to go on
stage it's not ready to go on stage or
if my player isn't capable why would I
put a player on it on ex-champion if
they're not capable of playing that
champion or playing that strategy
effectively I'm I'm even putting myself
at further disadvantage even if it's the
optimal way to play yeah so that that's
kind of my like and this is this is all
of a sudden there's no resolution on it
again like if I were a coach I would be
encouraging my players to play
everything when a new patch comes out
I'd be like let's try this let's try
this I saw this work in another region
let's try this and I would expect my
players to be willing to try those
things but then I think it's about as an
organization figuring out how do we
determine what of what we've tried what
is worth bringing to the LCS stage what
is worth putting an actual win or loss
on the line for in the LCS yeah
I worry I worry if the other regions are
playing stuff that's better
and our region is not getting to that
state quick enough and maybe that's not
the case right now but I can definitely
understand the concern I think it's a
that is a totally valid concern but I
would my question is can you tell me
what the optimal play
oh Jesus no but we're discussing the
idea that like you mentioned there are
people that are like players are
stubborn across all regions the stats
would tell you that North America being
tied with China for this is that Emily
ran statistics she tweeted out yesterday
being tied with China for 60% standard a
DC pic versus South Korea which has like
a thirty nine percent that there's like
a pretty big difference in stubbornness
there that seems to correlate maybe not
cause seems to correlate with the
difference of strength between those two
like South Korea is known to be the
better
region they're picking more unusual
picks North America not like that that
can be kind of striking and scary well I
think well also LPL while the marksman
thing is similar they actually run
double or they run super comps and goal
funneling we haven't seen that in North
America yet so even in some ways LPL
experiments more I think while I agree
with - like domestically like you should
be doing what's best for your your team
like looking internationally and looking
towards the future if we stay with like
weird pics and it's a lot more about
like what your team does well I and
maybe it is a problem that the average
North American pro player lacks the
ability to adapt at the same level that
players from China Korea and Europe are
able to do so gotcha
well can i chip in here a little bit
yeah yeah I want to clarify my original
point I'm not condemning DNA themes for
for not playing the new stuff in fact I
don't think that there's one optimal way
to play the game and you should is
always two competing ideas and well
what's what's in the matter what your
players can play but I think this is the
question of how do you design strategy
what's the starting point in which these
teams go about kind of designing the
strategies where they go into the game
so I thought it would have been great if
an arrow would be here so you can kind
of provide the expert mark a reason
bring him back whoops okay so don't hate
on my boy Nick that I don't know about
go continue just
she works better for them because they
they start with ah there's no one
correct way to play the matter but I
think that if you design your strategy
with the crashing of how do we win the
game first rather than what's
comfortable for our so where's the
starting point and you can do it either
way I think that either way if you are
able to merge the two you will have a
winning strategy but if you start with
how do we win first and then you start
to see a lot more innovation you start
to see a lot more diversity in strategy
as compared to you Judy
you do these strategy design the other
way around where you start with what are
we comfortable with and then you booked
what's how do we win the game
yeah turn if Jensen thank you so much
for your call thank you man yeah - do
you have a heart stop in two minutes I
could you like one more caller okay
we've got two more can we do to really
quick callers okay go go go mark give a
shout out really quickly - I am the
fourth hokage and Biggie Kapoor who both
subbed hopefully mark grab somebody any
minute the top of the clock is ticking
can he can he give us a caller in time
see him talking - is sweating so much
coming down to the last final moments
here well I guess if we have if he's
taking time I will throw in my final
point on that I think Jensen they were
actually arguing very similar points I
do believe that the victory again how I
win is the most important thing player
comfortability on champion or player
comfortability on X strategy is a factor
of what is the best way for our team to
win so I think in a lot of ways we were
arguing the same point and I think we
were kind of arguing around some not
even arguing but I think we were talking
around something with a lack of clarity
but staying very similar things gotcha
yeah I got you know I think that's
probably true Rico suave you've got we
got to get through your call really
quickly what do you what do you want to
sell a from and what do you want to say
I'm from New York City
welcome Thanks what do you got so so my
heart tick is I want to talk about how
terrible the meta is for two reasons one
the new meta is promoting trolling and
two the current meta right now is
destroying I guess the infrastructure
that makes leak different from all every
single other MOBAs so when it comes to
the trolling part you're starting to see
a bunch of a new champ
beings being picked and different roles
and at this point it's like you know you
can play any champion anywhere as long
as it looks
quote-unquote winnable and my second
take would be this story I guess the
infrastructure that League of of that
made the League of Legends unique
compared to other MOBAs because before I
even played League of Legends I was
playing dota and one of the main reasons
I even stopped playing that game is
because there was no sense of structure
like you you know dota is just like
League of it League of Legends currently
right now you pick whatever champion you
want and you go with it and just hope
you win as long as you don't get monkeys
and your team's gotcha okay Rico don't
look at twitch chat right now they very
much disagree with you
we're gonna go really quickly with
market - whichever one wants to go first
I think we need to define which what we
can see what you cuz I assume he means
that in soloqueue you can say hey I'm
picking jungler people are using this
meta as an excuse to take a champion to
Elaine and then int and like actually
troll you or are we saying trolling in
that leg hey I want to try this thing I
genuinely want to try this thing oops it
failed because to me that's not trolling
and so that's what I that's what I
wanted
I want to who can you can you elaborate
on the trolling all right so let me I
guess so everywhere I think the meta so
um the matter is pretty much a certain
pool of champions that I guess our
chronic favorable or winnable and can
winch when any languages which are
either easy or just you know one-click
kind of champion
and now with the meta literally just
open it up to whatever a champion you
want to play in any role it could also
get rid of and any idea so instead of
having a jungler well we just have to
two people top lane two people by only
have one person middle or get rid of the
support and have two junglers have one
invading the other camp and you know the
other jungle just stick into your side
of the jungle so the concerns the
concern is that you can you can now use
the excuse of this is a weird meta to do
stuff in in games in ranked or whatever
that is not going to have let you win
the game alright I guess I this reminds
me of like the no offense to riot - well
I'm sure he kind of agrees this this
reminds me of the reasoning that Riky
for why they shouldn't have a sandbox
mode like this will increase people's
negativity and toxicity in the game
because you can now be told go back to
sandbox mode like I just don't
understand this like the people who are
gonna troll and do dumb things to lose
attention yeah they're gonna do in any
meta now they just like they point to
this other thing and that's their new
reason like whatever they would have
done it anyways
where is like if they're legitimately
trying new things some of them are fine
like double jungle sounds dumb to me and
that guy can't really justify double
jungle in any way like you can't there's
actually less camps on the map if
anything it's the worst met at a double
jungle and that guy's just being dumped
and so like you can still very easily
case-by-case tell if someone's trolling
or not I think yeah - quick take yeah I
agree with Mark here I think that trolls
will be trolls like that that's been it
it's more about putting in other systems
in place to deal with trolls but I
personally like a world of League of
Legends where people want to experiment
and try I would love to see I agree with
mark and this meta it'd be terrible but
like I would love it if one day we
into the LCS and you saw a double jungle
versus a single jungle or you saw as you
mentioned to two top one mid to bot no
jungler right against a team that was
playing what we kept what we call
standard like I I would love to see the
way that interacts and if there are
actually ways to win the game that
aren't one one one two like that would
be really cool
so I don't know I I guess I just I just
I disagree that this meta is bad for
that reason because yeah I'm not whether
or not more trolling happens we'll wrap
it up with this I can understand the
concern that in a world where everybody
can just say oh I'll just do whatever I
want like I never viewed Kobe over the
weekend he was saying that some of those
favorite times in the preseason is when
he can try unconventional things because
you don't get yelled at and ranked for
trying something unusual and not meta I
think that's a good thing I think that
there are downsides that where you can
start to just do really weird stuff to
be a jerk but ultimately yeah those
people will get caught and hopefully
reported and handled and they'll lose
their games get frustrated I don't know
but Rico I understand what you mean I
think we just kind of disagree that that
that's a reason not to do the to have
this met in the first place
thank you so much for your call though
thank you sorry but couldn't give you
more time alright mark you want to see
us less okay he's off what do you got
you are you able to say what you're
doing tonight - practicing for for
rumble own are we do a little internal
so I got practice moon boy is here moon
boy are you calling from the moon I am
NOT but I'm calling from Milan Italy oh
there's a big fashion world there that's
what I know about my long yeah I'm not
really part of that for it so we all
have our disappointments for tonight
your twist up though which doesn't
disappoint me thank you for being here
what do you want to talk about in the
show tonight
I want to talk about how different
regions are developing different play
styles on this patch on this meta and
what that means for international play
so we've seen that LPL historically
has been very atc centric just give Ock
sign it he'll keep shitting on everyone
so why would they move away from that
lck has been a little bit more diverse
they play some cold funneling comes they
play a lot of bruisers and the bottom
mordekaiser some weird shit in you we've
seen a lot of mages in the bot lane
fnatic did that called funneling calm I
don't think they executed that well but
it's okay and na as we've seen so far is
more traditional more stubborn as he was
Jensen was saying before and if this
diversity in the meta
sticks around for words I'm looking
forward to seeing these different styles
clash I think this gives Western teams a
good chance to close the gap I know it's
a forbidden term but if we look in
recent history which was sent in got
closest to take down an Eastern team it
was misfits Edwards bringing a skating
to five games and they didn't do it
playing in China and Lulu and Kate's and
Ireland censor sports like everyone was
doing at the tournament they did it by
playing forever Leona and blitz
they played their style and that gave
them the edge so I I think if Western
teams at words can stick to their unique
playstyle
if they have a unique playstyle when
word comes around I believe they can go
further than we expect from them - I
agree I think even if this meta if the
medic doesn't persist to Worlds I would
want to see what you're talking about I
point to misfits constantly when I talk
to people about what I want to see
Western teams do more of when it comes
to international play and this goes back
to Jensen's point which is like find the
way that your team wins not the way that
SKT wins because you are not faker and
bang and Wolf you were you are not that
team so I 100% agree I would love to see
international competition with this
current meta or maybe it a patched one
patch further where we kind of tweak a
few things you know I would love to see
what teams decide to pull out and what
different strategies regions decide to
come with and I totally agree that
in in a state of the game where again
there's no there's no perceived optimal
way to play the game that gives Western
teams their best opportunity to perform
well at international competition here's
how North America wins worlds this meta
sticks a little bit but then goes even
further so like you shouldn't be playing
marksman but North America so stubborn
they keep playing marksman and no one
knows how to play again no one knows how
to play against them we dominate worlds
with Martin Moone boy you did it Marc
you did it we figured it out someone
felt very welcome
he's an arrow silly dude we figured it
out stop putting who any bottom it looks
good right now because North America
sucks just play like we don't know what
just play like we didn't read the patch
notes just keep doing the same old same
old moon boy thank you so much for your
call I am I'm hopeful that we end up
seeing that too I'm a little concerned
though that the regions will probably
start to reach a standardized level of
play over the next couple of months
before worlds but hopefully hopefully
that it was up happening thank you so
much for your call thanks for having me
yeah I think it's 5:00 a.m. there so
yeah thank you all right we'll just do
wrap up really quick so stache has to go
- anything you want to say any plugs
anything you want a shout out you know
shout out to everyone who built us that
new analyst desk studio because Marc and
I had nothing to do with that so I just
want to extend one more thank you so
many hours of works made that happen and
then of course to all the viewers here I
hope we put on an entertaining show
apologies for the on behalf of the power
company okay your get a backup generator
next time you're gonna come on the show
yeah I'll work on that
yeah Marc we always need to get an
internet provider as well Google Fiber
please I don't really have too much
planned for this week yeah I don't know
see you guys Friday for Academy you've
already said the best show that's
alright you want to get lunch tomorrow
Travis
I might be getting lunch at the training
facility with Peter but if I'm not I
will hit you up I'll find out soon
shout-out to sneaky the greatest ADC
that cloud lines ever had the person
there right now is an imposter I'm just
kidding he's a monkey Keith's on the
chat got a ton I did 14 videos this
weekend only four of them five of them
have gone up so far so there's a ton of
stuff hitting the YouTube channel go
check that out
twitch prime sub parade right now
whatever we want thanks to - for being
on the show I'm gonna switch over to
different screen so that he can exit the
vicinity thanks - yeah that's it for a
media room - done